# [Greentech Cookbook](../readme.md)

## Getting Started

This began as a biomimicry project for my friend's Master's thesis where we were trying to extract water from seawater for drinking purposes in third-world countries, but that didn't work because we couldn't get enough water, we didn't know what to do with the left-over brine, and and the extracted water was corrosive. The project sat on the shelf for years until I got board of debugging code and I turned the machine into a new type of water Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC)  and energy harvester called an Oregon-Cooler™ Negative-carbon Aqua HVAC Energy Station™. It works on simple physical principles.

First, you must know the sources of greenhouse gas emissions. Second, you must know what percent of electricity is used in your home for different purposes. First, you must know some science about HVAC & gases:

1. Water heats faster when the surface area in contact with the heat source is maximized.
2. Your refrigerator generates water condensate like a dehumidifier with a hot-cold circuit that evaporates the water
3. Water condensate has CO2 in it
4. Water absorbs heat when it vaporizes and releases heat when it condensates.
5. wood is a thermal insulator
6. trees have tubes in them for carrying water from the roots to the leaves.
7. LEDs are much more efficient at lower temperatures and the spectrum is more full.
8. Most of the energy required to heat water is to bring it from cold up to room temperature.
9. Salt absorbs water from the air.

These facts are all you need to know to slash your energy bill; so here is my plan: we heatsink your house to the temperature of the tap-water and turn all of your electronics into a water heater using fans and reclaiming heated greywater for use in toilets. I'm thinking it will be like a water pump for the baths/showers and sinks that filters out any bad stuff in case the water is nasty.

First, we start with the heated greywater. we've been dumping 13% of our electricity RIGHT DOWN THE DRAIN!!! The Oregon-Cooler is to create a hot, cold, moist and dry circuit in your home to make the water flow through the gas to moisture cycle by hijacking your refrigerator and adding a dehumidifier to keep your dry goods and home dry. The warm air goes through the dry storage where it is then fed into the cold circuit of the refrigerant/freezer and vented out of the house. You reroute your shower water with a pump with a filter on it into a metal tank called the Wet Room where it sits until it cools, and we use this warm air in combination with your drier output to feed what these LED photograph lighting panels and TVs.

LEDs work WAY better when you water cool them, so the system starts out by bringing your tap water up through some metal pipes in an insulated Biodigester such that when the compost has heat, water runs through the pipes preheating your water. The compost is then mixed and the top skimmed off when a sensor detects its ready. This water is still under pressure from the city and goes up to the telephone poles to cool the streetlights, and we install solar water preheaters on the tops of telephone poles. Solar panels are also just like LEDs only reverse, so you put a solar panel on top of the water preheaters, and it transfers the rest of the wasted heat into the water and increases the efficiency of the panel. This water then flows from the pole into people's houses into the LED water heater panels described below.

Methane gas from the decomposing food is extracted using pipes that go from pile to pile, venting the bad smell, and condensing the methane to be used to generate heat that is then fed back into the system to heat water and aid in the breaking down of the biomaterial.

You have the option of putting more water preheaters in the sun in windows and on your roof. It then gravity feeds into these LED lighting panels and TVs on your walls that have spray water on the back of a metal panel with LEDs on them to cool them. The water is then gravity fed to your sinks and shower. There is a fan that blows air into the wet room with forced injection, and it then gets sent through the panels on the wall such that it blows up on the water and makes the water semi-levitate in the air, exchanging the heat from the wet room and the pre-heated water. This air goes from the salt-log back to the house, then back to the wet room via the dryer what has to run the fan all the time and you turn the heat and motor on when you dry clothes so it requires a modified PCB that gives you wireless control with an app. You can also add an additional fan to suck the air from your existing lights to cool them and add that to the wall panel air current. You can either put an LCD screen in front of it to block out the light or you can diffuse it for photography purposes. Additionally, we also vent the heat from your PC and other electronics into the heating the water.

The effect of this is that you get extra humidity in your home, which is bad, so you need to use a dehumidifier. There is too much water for a dehumidifier, so I've invented a natural dehumidifier from a log with slots cut in it to make a wet and dry circuit, and salt to create a moisture differential and keep the heat in the house. You cut slots in the log, looking top-down you to the left to right, then bellow that you go top to bottom, then bellow that right to left, then bottom-to-top, and this pattern repeats the length of the log. You cut some holes in the sides to make two tubes that alternate moist-dry out of the slots that you cover with a black rubber-like material, take your pick, to absorb sunlight and further insulate the wood, turning the log into a tube with two alternating dry-moist circuits. You flood the moist path with really salty water (brine), and it creates a thin layer of salt on the surface. You blow the moist air through the log in the salt circuit, the moisture in the air bangs against the wood, causing it to cool and condensate in the salt releasing the energy, then the water is absorbed into the wood. You take hotter and dry air and blow it past through the dry circuit of the log, heating the water in the wood because water absorbs heat from the air as it vaporizes, and it causes the moisture to pass through the thin membrane of the slots using the tubes the tree uses to carry water to its roots and for heat from outside to flow inside and be added to the energy in the water heater. The source of the air coming through here comes from a mixture of the hot circuit from the refrigerator and the dry circuit. This hot dry air then gets mixed with a variable mixture of air taken from either the warmest or coolest place outside depending on if we need to heat or cool the house, then it gets sent back into the wet room to keep the heat in the house and the dehumidifier cranking out condensate. The neat thing is that we just separated the hot and dry circuit, but then combined them after the dehumidification process... or in other words, we sucked the heat out of the refrigerator and put it into the hot water!!!! And to top it all off, we actually heated the air in the process by banging the molecules around so many times in the log by the same wattage the fan uses, so even the fan power is included in the water heater.

So what we need to do is hijack the hot and cold circuits of your refrigerator so it stops re-humidifying the water condensate, store the water condensate an additional outside freezer with heat channels coupled to the refrigerator inside, and percolate smoke through it to increase the CO2 level by burning a  small amount of renewable fuel such as non-recyclable paper and packaging on your stove to preheat pans and heat water using your stove hood to vent the smoke, to convert it into hot water and heat for the home. you weight the trash to calculate the carbon, then it waits until there is enough water and it starts to burn the trash. The smoke gets percolated through cold water in your freezer that increases the gas content of the water, extracting the heat from the stove back into the water through the freezer that is then vented back into the wet room, before draining it out in a greenhouse with plants where it evaporates and is absorbed by the plants in and converted to carbon and Oxygen using photosynthesis. The hot water from the first percs is held in a tank where it sits next to water so the heat can exchange from the hot water to the cold, and the warm water is brought into the house. We then use the plants as a fuel source to burn to heat the house, capturing nearly all of the heat energy from the fuel.  Additionally, these greenhouses can be placed next to home to add insulation to windows and provide you with pretty plants to look at. We then reroute the hot circuit from the fridge into the house and the cold circuit out another salt log dehumidifier that sucks the water out of the house. The other problem is there is a lot of steam in the air from the hot smoke so what do you do with it? Of course, you run the output through an Oregon-Cooler that doesn't have a rubber on it. Eventually, it will fill up with carbon that you filtered out of the air, and you just burn the log and replace it.

The bio-burner system will be a module you put on top of your stove that allows you to burn paper, wood, and biofuels to cook food and heat water. Since it fits on top of the stove, it doesn't require any modifications to your home. What we want to do use  a combination of electric heat and trash to cook, so by using the stove hood rerouted through a water percolator system that then pulls the smoke through the cold water in your refrigerator, what you've turned your home from a carbon source into a carbon sink; all by keeping the heat from the burning fuel in the house will venting the poisonous gasses into a grow tent to be converted back into more fuel, creating a closed-loop system that only has waste heat from poor insulation. And because the water is in a freezer, it will freeze, so all you have to do is take water out of the freezer from the bottom using a temperature sensor to adjust the output rate; making it also the cheapest CO2 extraction system in existence because it's free because you're using the freezer to extract heat because we are able to reroute the heat we pulled off of the refrigerator into the hot water.

The physics is such that even if the water is cold, as the water changes from a gas to a liquid, as long as the heat on the other side of the log is greater than that of cold water, it acts as a heated diode allowing solar energy to flow one way. So my plan is to take entire trees, turning them into salt-log dehumidifiers, burry two posts in the ground, and you have this lovely monolith-looking-thing that you can hang solar panels from, and once per day the panels rotate 180 degrees to track the sun, and put solar tracking mirrors on them, and heat your house in the winter on solar to completely eliminate your electricity bill. 

Since salt is a good cheap heat battery, what you do with this for the wet room you dig a hole under your house, insulate it, and above that is a layer of thick brine (saltwater) that we heat during the day with solar tracking mirrors on that heat a metal box on the Salt-Log Towers that heats both the dehumidifier and the brine. There is a pocket of air above the brine, another layer of insulation, and then the heated grey water tank on top of that. The salt will store heat energy, moist air will then travel up to the refrigerator where it condensates on the refrigerator coil and releases its energy where it is then blowing from the dry goods area into the house, in the process producing more water condensate to extra more CO2; performing a feat of what used to be thought of as magic with relative ease thanks to the partitioning of the home into Moist->Warm->Dry->Cold zones.  And to add voodoo to this, we can switch the water source from hot to cold water to control the temperature.

The keep thing is that with the Oregon-Cooler, there is no longer an air conditioner; all you have is a water heater, lights, TV, and a drier. This is because all you need to do now is heat your house from 50 degrees F of the tap water to 69 degrees F, which is quite a bit better than heating from subzero to room temp, or cooling from hot to room temp. The only wasted heat then at this point then becomes waste heat.

The Oregon-Cooler was invented to be able to use Wood to solve global warming because trees are 50% carbon and they stop consuming CO2 when they are full-grown, so we need to farm trees to cool the planet. The Oregon-Cooler solution is a return to steam-power by creating small power stations on the city limits that burn fuel that causes forest fires to generate power. I used to fight forest fires and they paid me to burn these huge stick piles. They don't want to burn they near the city due to soot in the air, so my plan is to turn the highways into a giant air dehumidifier and chimney by using small "speed bumps" that are pistons that compress a refrigerant and get pushed back up by a spring, creating a refrigerator in order to generate water condensate... A LOT of water condensate because we're going to add solar panels to power compressors to power all of the air conditioners and dehumidifiers we just made obsolete. You turn entire trees into Oregon Coolers that run along the highway and they have a wind and solar-powered fans made from wood, and you use them to filter out the pollution from wood-powered steam power generators that use a scaled-up version of the water heater for the home. You just measure out how much water there is, weight the wood to burn, and the system then scrubs out exactly how much CO2 you just added into the system. The trick is to percolate it through enough chimneys so you remove the CO2, and they route that the grow tents along the highway. When the logs fill up with soot, we just replace it and burn the log. This has the effect of creating a negative carbon power generator that reduces forest fires.

This same steam power station technique can be applied in town by replacing sidewalks with chimneys that go from compost pile to compost pile and extract methane.  All we have to do is bury some trees side by side to make a sidewalk out of the chimneys, and we can create small steam power stations in our neighborhoods where we can extract some CO2 with our refrigerator runoff, and a machine calculates the exact amount of smoke to blow through it.

**[<< Previous Section: Content Table](../) | [Next Section: Quickstart Guide >>](./quickstart_guide)**

## License

Copyright © 2019 [Kabuki Starship™](kabukistarship.com).

This source code form is an open-source document, the Document, that was written by and contains intellectual property. The Document consists of documents, files, source code, technology design files, art, and other content contained this file, folder and the GitHub repository located at the Repository. The Document is published under the Kabuki Strong Source-available License, the License, which is a non-commercial open-source license and is for educational and demonstration purposes only. You may use, reproduce, publicly display, and modify the Document so long as you submit and donate fixes and derived intellectual property, the Donated Ideas, to the Repository as an Issue ticket to become part of the Document. You may not sell the Document or otherwise profit from derivative works created from the Document without the expressed written permission of the copyright holder. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, the Document distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
